VMCON-1:VM Connector - Migration: enhance and improve usability. (#1028)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: vm/2.0/modules/ROOT/pages/vm-propagate-messages.adoc

> = VM Connector Propagate Message Attributes Example - Mule 4

Reviewer: HERE

> The following example illustrates how you can propagate message attributes through a VM queue via a message payload. The first flow takes incoming HTTP message attributes and additionally creates a custom attribute of its own, and then adds both of these attributes into a message payload so the *VM Publish* operation can publish the message to a VM queue. In the second flow, the *VM Listener* source receives the message payload from the previous flow and sets its own message attributes. Subsequently, the message payload is finally stored in an object store.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example illustrates how you can propagate message attributes through a VM queue via a message payload. The first flow takes incoming HTTP message attributes, creates a custom attribute of its own, and then adds both of these attributes into a message payload that the *VM Publish* operation can publish to a VM queue. In the second flow, the *VM Listener* source receives the message payload from the previous flow and sets its own message attributes, and the message payload is finally stored in an object store.
```

The following screenshot shows the Anypoint Studio app flow for this example:

.VM Connector Propagate message attributes flow
image::vm-example-messageflow.png[VM Connector example flow]

== Create the VM Publish Flow

> The VM Publish flow first listens for incoming HTTP message attributes, then transforms the message attributes into a JSON structure message, and finally the *VM Publish* operation publishes the message in a VM queue. +

Reviewer: Publish or publish?
Is this a formal name? I'm guessing not....
GLOBAL; I will stop marking.

Reviewer: This sentence is unbalanced, because the flow is the subject for the first two actions and the operation for the third. So I think we need one of the following alternatives:
```suggestion
The VM publishing flow first listens for incoming HTTP message attributes, then transforms the message attributes into a JSON structure message, and finally publishes the message in a VM queue. +
```
OR
```suggestion
The VM publishing flow first listens for incoming HTTP message attributes and then transforms the message attributes into a JSON structure message. Finally, the *VM Publish* operation publishes the message in a VM queue. +
```
OR remove "first," "then," and "finally" from either version.

To create the VM Publish flow: +

. Create a new Mule project in Studio.

> . In the *Mule Palette* view, select the *HTTP Listener* source and drag it into the canvas. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *Mule Palette* view, select the *HTTP Listener* source and drag it onto the canvas. +
```

Reviewer: In these task steps, the boldfacing is accurate, because these are UI labels.

The source listens for incoming HTTP messages attributes.
. On the *HTTP Listener* configuration screen, set the *Path* field to `/message`.
. Click the plus sign (+) next to the *Connector configuration* field to configure a global element that can be used by all instances of the *HTTP Listener* in the app.

> . In the *Connection* section, set the *Protocol* to `HTTP (Default)`, *Host* to `All Interfaces [0.0.0.0] (default)` and *Port* to `8081`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *Connection* section, set *Protocol* to `HTTP (Default)`, *Host* to `All Interfaces [0.0.0.0] (default)`, and *Port* to `8081`.
```

> . Set the *Base path* to `/publish`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Set *Base path* to `/publish`.
```

. Click *Test Connection* to confirm that Mule can connect with the specified server.
. Click *OK*.

> . Drag the *Transform Message* component to the right of the *HTTP Listener*. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Drag the *Transform Message* component to the right of *HTTP Listener*. +
```

> The component transforms the incoming HTTP message attributes into a JSON structure that contains the `listenerPath` and `method` attributes, and a new custom `sizeAttribute` attribute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The component transforms the incoming HTTP message attributes into a JSON structure that contains the `listenerPath` and `method` attributes, as well as a new custom `sizeAttribute` attribute.
```

> . In the *Output Payload* script view of the *Transform Message* component, define the `listenerPath` and `method` attributes using the following DataWeave code:

Reviewer: "script view" or just "view"? 
GLOBAL

[source,xml,linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
output application/json
---
{
listenerPath: attributes.listenerPath,
method: attributes.method
}
----

[start=11]
. In the *Output Attributes* script view of the *Transform Message* component, define a new custom `sizeAttribute` attribute using the following DataWeave code:

[source,DataWeave, linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
output application/json
---
{
sizeAttribute: sizeOf(attributes.listenerPath) + sizeOf(attributes.method)
}

----

[start=12]
. Drag the *VM Publish* operation to the right of the *Transform Message* component. +
The operation publishes the created JSON message in the VM queue.
. On the *VM Publish* configuration screen, click the plus sign (+) next to the *Connector configuration* field to configure a global element for the VM queue.
. On the *VM Config* window, for *Queues* select `Edit inline`.

> . On the *Queue* window, set the *Queue name* to `testqueue1`, *Queue type* to `TRANSIENT (Default)` and *Max outstanding message* to `o`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. On the *Queue* window, set *Queue name* to `testqueue1`, *Queue type* to `TRANSIENT (Default)`, and *Max outstanding message* to `o`.
```

. Click *Finish*.
. Click *OK*.

In Studio, the *VM Config* global element configuration looks like this:

.VM Config global element configuration
image::vm-example-publish2.png[VM Config global element configuration]

[start=18]
. In the *General > Content* field of the *VM Publish* configuration screen, define the following DataWeave code:

[source,DataWeave, linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
output application/json
---
{'listenerPath': payload.listenerPath, 'method': payload.method, 'messageSize': attributes.sizeAttribute }
----

In Studio, the *VM Publish* operation configuration looks like this:

.VM Publish operation configuration
image::vm-example-publish1.png[VM Publish operation configuration]

== Create the VM Listener Flow

> The VM Listener flow listens for incoming messages attributes in the VM queue from the previous VM Publish flow, then set its own attributes via the *VM Listener* source, and finally stores the message payload in an object store. +

Reviewer: Ditto edits made in this intro sentence for publishing subtopic

To create the VM Listener flow: +

> . In the *Mule Palette* view, select the *VM Listener* source and drag it into the canvas below the first VM Publish flow. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *Mule Palette* view, select the *VM Listener* source and drag it onto the canvas below the first VM Publish flow. +
```

Reviewer: "on" a canvas rather than "in" a canvas; GLOBAL

In Studio, the *VM Listener* source configuration looks like this:

.VM Listener source configuration
image::vm-example-listener.png[VM Listener source configuration]

[start=3]
. Drag a *Logger* component to the right of the *VM Listener*.
. On the *Logger* configuration screen, set the *Message* field to `payload`.
. Drag another *Logger* component to the right of the first *Logger* component.
. On the *Logger* configuration screen, set the *Message* field to `'VM message attributes: queue name ' ++ attributes.queueName as String`.
. Drag an *ObjectStore Store* operation to the right of the second *Logger* component. +
The operation stores the received `'method':'listenerPath'` pair attributes in an object store.
. On the *ObjectStore Store* configuration screen, set the *Display Name* field to `Add Http Request`.
. In the *General* section, set *Key* to `payload.method` and *Value* to `payload.listenerPath`.
. Click the plus sign (+) next to the *Object Store* field to set the global object store configuration.
. Set the default values and click *OK*.
. Save the project and run the app.
. Test the app by sending a request to `\http://127.0.0.1:8081/publish/message`.

> == XML for Propagating Message Attributes through the VM Queue

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== XML for Propagating Message Attributes Through the VM Queue
```
